# VensimToR

for those of you who work with SD models and Vensim – but love to work with R. Vensim is an incredibly helpful tool to build complex SD models. An academic license comes for free. As complex SD models can often cover multiple sectors and higher order delays, they can be difficult to code out of the box. At the same time, constantly jumping between software for data preparation, analysis, or writing reports disrupts the research flow and makes it more likely to introduce mistakes and it could become difficult to reproduce results. One solution to this problem is to build the initial model in vensim and to export the underlying differential equation systems into R for further use.

This R file provides an example how to convert SD models build with vensim for use in R. Once the system of equations is imported, they can then be further customised. It reduces the component of coding out of the box, and helps to ensure that all necessary parameters, flows, stocks etc. are defined. The advantage of using R is that it offers better computational performance than vensim and allows to carry out auxiliary modelling to inform the SD model building process or single parameters. In addition, using markdown and R's plotting functions etc. enable us to create output straight out of the analysis while ensuring its all open access and reproducible. 

To run the code, download all files, ensure all libraries are installed and loaded. Ensure the file path to the ".xmile" file is specified correctly. Then simply run the code. Please get in touch if it doesn't work for you:
